If a highly intelligent, parasitic pathogen
began infecting and reconstituting your friends
into meat monsters, what would you do?
In this video on Nerd Explains, we’ll follow
the characters, see if we can make better
decisions, and ultimately attempt to beat
the thing in, The Thing.
If you think you have a better way to beat
the alien pathogen, let me know in the comments!
If you like these how to beat videos, consider
subscribing.
We start out following a Norwegion research
team in Antarctica, chasing down an unusual
radio signal emitting from under the ice.
* It’s not exactly an Independence Day signal..
* ...Which would warrant a Def-Con Level 1
response, but radiowaves don’t originate
from ice, so the origin of the signal is worth
checking out.
Once on top of the signal, their snowcat breaks
through the ice and they drop into a giant
chasm.
With incredible luck they aren’t killed,
they crank on the headlights, revealing what
appears to be a spacecraft.
* I’m guessing this spaceship didn’t crash
recently, as the ice was frozen back over,
and it’s unlikely that nobody detected it
hitting the Earth.
Since this craft crashed and froze awhile
ago, I see no need to hunt it down in the
winter.
It sounds stupid to say winter in Antarctica,
but the summer is actually significantly warmer
and more survivable.
Winter can get down to negative double or
triple digits, while summer can get up to
around 0 degrees.
In the winter of 1982 in Antarctica, the temperatures
were recorded as reaching as low as -117 degrees.
* Unless they packed 3 sets of ice picks,
ascending 100 to 200 feet of shear ice ain’t
gonna happen.
Even if they did, they would only have limited
equipment and shelter as the truck with all
the gear is in the chasm.
Unless their research facility and team members
are close by, they’re probably dead.
Our main protagonist, Kate Lloyd, is in a
different chasm, investigating the remains
of a thawing 27,500 year old cave bear.
She’s a vertebrate paleontologist who's
about to get an up close encounter with the
thing the Norwegion’s found.
The team makes haste and takes a chopper to
the crash site, where we get some not so subtle
foreshadowing.
Kate Lloyd is warned by other members of the
team that they need to wrap up their expedition
in a few days, as a nasty storm is moving
in.
*
Storms in Antarctica aren’t that frequent,
but when they do hit, they can be really bad.
The storms can cause white-out conditions
with visibility of less than 3 feet for days
at a time.
They are avoidable though.
If the expedition was postponed a week until
after the storm, they’d likely have a whole
month before the next one came, and it’d
be safer working conditions for an excavation.
Like we talked about earlier, this craft and
specimen has been there for a long time already,
so it’s not like waiting a few days later
will hurt.
Using the Spryte, the crew makes their way
to the site of the spacecraft.
* Once inside, we get a look at the spacecraft,
it’s absolutely massive.
They estimate the craft has been there for
100,000 years.
* Wait what.
* It’s possible that the alien in the ship
picked up our radio waves, and, realizing
it could finally signal to an intelligent
species for help, activated it’s distress
signal.
* As far as how the alien survived for 100,00
years inside the spaceship trapped in ice.
It was probably cryonically preserved, and
only awakened once the ship picked up our
distinct electromagnetic waves.
The research crew is then taken to the alien
specimen, which had attempted to escape on
foot.
It didn’t make it very far though.
* Remember, temperatures can drop down to
-120 degrees here, which begs the question.
Why did the alien leave the ship, when it’s
certain death?
* This alien’s pretty big and has claws,
it looks reptilian almost.
Sure, it’s encased in ice, but maybe we
should bring in some firepower for security
sake.
Maybe I watch too many movies..
The crew begins planning the alien excavation.
* Holy shit it’s Tormund, I thought the
Wildlings were in the North.
Dr. Sander explicitly commands the crew to
stay off the radio, to avoid any information
getting out.
* I was just beginning to wonder why nobody
was alerting the authorities.
Sure, I get that they want to make the discovery
and intimately be a part of researching the
alien, which you wouldn’t get to do if the
Government started intervening.
But, they are paleontologists, ecologists,
and geologists, dealing with an alien spaceship
and body.
I think it’s fair to say, they’re out
of their depth.
* If they had divulged their discovery to
organizations that had the equipment knowledge,
and capabilities for securing and containing
a potential alien lifeform, this whole mess
could have been avoided.
As we’ll see soon, this crew makes a ton
of foolish mistakes which leads to the thing
getting free.
It is reasonable that scientists would selfishly
want to take a first stab at checking out
an alien ship, so let’s continue as if we
decided not to get outside help.
* We get to meet the rest of the team, and
it appears the first three gentlemen did survive
the drop into the chasm.
Another researcher, Adam, has the same perplexing
question I do:
* The only reasonable answer, is that this
thing must be really dumb..
The next day they haul the ice block containing
the alien into camp.
* It seems like an obvious precaution to take
when dealing with a thawing alien creature
is to wear level A personal protective equipment,
which should be worn when skin, respiratory,
and eye protection is required.
I would think that dealing with an alien,
whose body will no doubt contain alien microbes,
would warrant this level of protection.
* There have been numerous cases of people
picking up pathogens from old thawing objects
and creatures.
Not too long ago, there was an anthrax outbreak
caused by old thawing reindeer corpses, as
well as an archaeologist that picked up a
skin infection from handling an old polar
bear skull without protection.
Always use protection when fondling old polar
bear skulls, you never know where that head’s
been.
* It’s pretty common sense stuff, especially
when dealing with a fucking alien.
* Since this thing is an alien, we don’t
know it’s capabilities at all.
It could be a cyborg, it could have a life
support suit, it might not be killed easily
by cold conditions, it could be super strong.
There’s a lot of unknowns, so just assuming
this alien is dead and throwing it in the
shed is just a little too careless, to put
it lightly.
* They’ve already made a few major mistakes
so far.
Attempting to research an alien spacecraft
and creature without letting anyone know,
and doing so without any protective equipment,
secure containment facilities, or weapons.
At least Kate has some brains.
The crew proceeds to not give a single shit,
whips out a power drill you’d pick off the
rack at Lowes, and drills into the alien.
After studying the alien’s tissue sample,
Dr. Sander announces that he has never seen
anything like it on a cellular level.
It’s a monumental discovery for mankind.
* Which is why they’ve taken care to secure
the alien corpse in a melting block of ice
in a wooden storage shed.
* I know all safety has been thrown out the
window, but for science’s sake, wouldn’t
you want to keep the ice from melting prematurely
as decomposition would set in and destroy
the alien corpse?
Ah, that’s why.
The most important scientific discovery of
the millennium is being safeguarded by a bunch
of drunken buffoons.
Another crew member decides to check out the
unsecured alien that’s kept in the storage
shed, while everyone’s plastered.
Welp, I think containment was breached.
Great, now there’s a Xenomorph on the loose
and everyone is hammered.
Derek breaks the news, and they all don their
winter coats and split up to search for it
with nothing but flashlights.
* Good idea guys, don’t wait until morning,
don’t stay together, and don’t get anything
that can be used to defend yourselves.
It’s not like this giant Xenomorph looking
alien just superman’ed out of a block of
ice and through the roof of the shed or anything.
I’m sure search groups of 2 or 3 people
at night will be sufficient.
* Understatement of the year.
* Personally, I’d grab gear and weapons,
then move everyone together to the most secure,
well-built part of the camp to hold out.
Like before, the alien won’t survive the
freezing conditions so it can’t leave the
camp.
It will hide somewhere in the camp, but trying
to catch it is too dangerous.
* Then I'd make contact with the U.S. that
we discovered an alien craft and survivor.
Help should arrive within a day or so to properly
secure and contain the alien.
* I’m betting they wait until the storm
hits, then try to radio home for help, at
which point it will be broken and rescue is
impossible.
* If for some reason you do want to catch
it, wait until morning when visibility isn’t
a problem.
I’d put 2 people with a radio in the water
tower like Private Jackson & Parker in Saving
Private Ryan, so they could coordinate the
ground teams and watch for the alien.
* Then have the rest of the crew grab flamethrowers
and weapons, and sweep through the compound,
clearing it room by room together.
Maintain visual contact with each other as
best as you can.
This alien was frozen, drilled into, and is
probably a bit agitated.
You don’t have to barbecue it, but if it
gets rowdy you’ll have options.
Take care to maintain open lines of fire by
using an L shaped formation.
If you surround the alien, using the flamethrower
becomes dangerous as you’re likely to hit
your friends.
Looks like the alien was hungry, but it’s
still nowhere to be found.
We cut over to two unnamed and expendable
researchers, completely isolated and in darkness,
hunting for a pissed off alien.
I’m sure they’ll be just fine.
The other guy doesn’t need to radio for
help, as his screaming at the sight of his
friend being sucked into an alien’s belly
will do.
Who could have foreseen that the alien would
completely outmatch and attack them.
The rest of the crew shows up to help watch
their friend get consumed.
To Dr. Sander’s dismay, they open fire on
the alien with pistols.
The alien shrugs off their puny calibers,
so they toss over a can of kerosene and light
it up with a superbly placed flare.
* Honestly, that throw was on point.
I’d have missed and bounced the flare off
the side of the shed.
Kudos as well for not trying to shoot the
kerosene, we all know that doesn’t work.
Fire-bombing the alien seemed to do the trick.
Back at the lodge, there’s a standoff between
Dr. Sander and Sam Carter, the chopper pilot
and expert flare thrower, as to what to do
with the body.
Sanders wants to perform an autopsy, and Carter
wants to completely destroy it.
* We know it’s the thing, but they don’t.
I personally would choose to autopsy it in
the name of science.
* But with one minor condition.
That the autopsy isn’t performed by us,
but by another agency that’s more well-equipped
and has the firepower and intelligence to
contain it.
It should be painfully obvious that we aren’t
able to handle the situation.
Until they could arrive, I’d just guard
the alien body with flamethrowers.
* The crew quickly begins autopsying the alien
corpse, under the assumption that it’ll
start decomposing, I guess.
But bodies at the morgue are kept at low negative
temperatures in order to significantly slow
rates of decomposition until an autopsy can
occur.
If you leave the alien corpse outside in Antarctica,
the temperatures are more than adequate for
storing it until another agency arrives.
* It looks like the giant bug alien was only
able to devour half of Henrik.
* But good god, this has to be the most horrific
autopsy you could be asked to do.
I’d be hopping on Sam’s chopper to get
out of this shitshow as soon as possible.
This arrogant scientist and his lackeys are
definitely gonna get themselves killed.
* Jesus Christ, he’s literally performing
an autopsy without any PPE on his face.
It’s fairly common for bodily juices to
squirt out of corpses when performing autopsies,
which is why they wear facemasks.
Everyone else in the room is literally breathing
alien corpse air into their lungs.
* Also, they’re wearing the same gloves
that sandwich artists at Subway use, which
obviously aren’t meant for open alien surgery.
I know I'm hammering on using PPE a lot, but
as the saying goes, an ounce of prevention
is worth a pound of cure.
* It’s worth noting that the creature survived
being frozen without a protective suit, and
we know it’s not a cyborg of any sort.
Most organisms can’t survive rapid freezing
as it causes intracellular ice crystallization
which destroys the cells.
This means that the alien shares properties
of known extremophile organisms called Psychrophiles,
which can survive and reproduce at near 0
degree temperatures.
* I’m not sure why he said their friend
was encased in some type of amniotic sac,
the alien was not exactly giving birth to
Henrik, quite the opposite actually.
Kate pulls out a loose piece of metal used
to reinforce broken bones.
The fact that it was just loosely floating
around in there is a bit odd.
Kate and Adam use a microscope to study a
blood and tissue sample of the alien, which
reveals the nature of the thing.
* I’m sure Dr. Sanders would find this fascinating,
and it is.
But it’s also clearly an incredibly dangerous
pathogen that needs to be handled with immense
care.
* Nobody has used PPE, the alien in the autopsy
room is still alive on a cellular level, and
one of the crew members was splattered in
the face with blood.
With how infectious and dangerous this pathogen
is, it cannot be allowed to leave the station.
Containment needs to be ensured.
* This would be a breach in containment.
He needs to be quarantined along with the
alien.
He hasn’t suffered any mortal wounds, only
minor shock.
So he doesn’t need to travel to a hospital.
While washing her hands in the bathroom, Kate
notices what look like metal fillings on the
ground.
* Please don’t pick it up.
* Oh, thank god she used a napkin to pick
up the lethal pathogen.
* This is the same sort of thing we saw with
Henrik and his metal plate.
But that occurred inside an alien which contained
the imitating blood.
This would only happen if this guy’s infected
with the same pathogen.
* You can’t just remove fillings without
the tooth coming with it, so something is
not right here.
We have to stop the helicopter from leaving
until we know what’s happening.
Kate’s a clever girl, so she pieces this
together and flags the chopper down before
they leave.
* Kate needs to get a weapon, preferably one
that throws fire, and isolate the infected
guy quickly.
If he’s just an imitated alien, and no longer
himself, stopping the thing from leaving will
provoke it to attack.
The bug was made up of the same infected cells
as this guy, and it wasn’t exactly peaceful
when confronted.
The bug also wasn’t stopped by bullets.
* It wasn’t Henrik, as Kate suspected.
Griggs was likely infected and assimilated
by the doggo-thing.
Looks like beer wasn’t the only thing he
brought back to the party.
Sam can’t put the chopper down gently amidst
the chaos, and crash lands far from the base.
* What do ya know, they just now try to use
the radio but it doesn’t work because of
the impending storm.
Not that help would be able to arrive in the
storm if they could make contact.
Kate returns to the bathroom, to assess the
bloody shower, except, all the blood is gone.
This
thing is still here.
* Can someone pistol whip this guy already.
He’s already gotten people killed, and I'm
sure a whole lot more will die because of
him.
The crew decides to go to a nearby research
station for help.
But thankfully Kate stops them.
She briefs the rest of the crew on her discovery
from the microscopy, that this thing can replicate
people.
According to Kate, one of the weaknesses of
the thing is that it can’t copy inorganic
material.
* In the movie, the stubborn researchers disregard
her warnings which leads to a lot of unnecessary
death.
You literally have a blood sample, and an
alien corpse full of the pathogen.
All you need to do is show them the blood
sample under a microscope, it’s irrefutable
evidence.
Once the crew is onboard with your assertions,
you can begin to quarantine and destroy the
thing.
* Since this thing is already here and imitating
people, you can’t trust anyone without verification.
It could be in this room with us right now.
The fact that it assimilates organisms on
a cellular level means that it’s not only
intelligent, but could possess an identical
brain structure.
It might be able to imitate the intelligence,
memories, and behavior of it’s victim.
The only reliable way of detecting the thing
is with a blood sample.
* Move everyone outside, so if the thing attacks,
you can torch it without burning the whole
building down.
Since this thing can’t replicate inorganic
material, check for fillings on a few people.
Then, send those people to get blood testing
kits and flamethrowers.
* We know that whoever the thing is, they’re
composed of the same cells the bug was, which
means they’re indestructible to small arms.
* Before rooting out the thing, which will
provoke it to attack, make sure you have the
flamethrowers lit.
Eventually the blood tests will reveal the
thing, which you can then burn to ashes.
The dog-thing will need to be found and destroyed,
as well as a similar procedure performed on
any survivors of the helicopter crash.
* Nearby stations would also need to be warned.
Later in the movie, we find out that a nearby
Russian station is 50 miles from them.
Alaskan Malamutes, like Lars’s dog, race
in the Iditarod and can cover over 100 miles
in a single day.
It’s possible that the dog-thing could reach
other stations on foot.
This is confirmed by the 1982 sequel.
* If the crew still disregarded us like in
the movie, I’d prepare myself for the eventuality
that everyone will be killed and assimilated,
based on their complete lack of regard for
an deadly, insidious alien pathogen.
Grab gear, weapons, packaged food and bottled
water, secure a radio, then isolate myself
from everyone else.
Once the interference clears up, let the world
know that a deadly pathogen from an alien
was found, and to proceed with extreme caution,
etc.
* Members of our crew decide to break containment
and head to the nearby Halley research station
to get to their other refueling chopper, but
it’s okay as they won’t be able to leave
that station until the storm passes.
When the storm passes we can radio out our
warning to the world, before they can take
the chopper home.
Juliette sides with Kate, and shows her where
the snowcat keys are so she can hide them
and prevent the crew from leaving the base
They both hurry into the storage closet, where
Kate thinks she’s going to find the keys,
but actually, Juliette wants to get her alone
for a little striptease.
* Kate nopes out of there with some slick
parkour moves.
Seriously, can we just take a moment to commend
her for not tripping on a loose pencil or
can of beans during her escape.
Blondie doesn’t share Kate’s quick reactions
and gets rekted before his brain can process,
“Monster close, me, in danger.”
Lars shows up with the flamethrower, which
is good thinking since we know the alien cells
and pathogens are susceptible to intense heat.
* Wait, why the hell do research scientists
have a flamethrower?
On Quora, a first hand account answered that
they couldn’t find flamethrowers in the
U.S. Antarctic Program’s material and maintenance
tracking software.
I know this isn’t a U.S. station, but I
think it’s still relevant.
I guess it’s just because it’s cool.
Lars torches the thing, but it intelligently
uses the fire sprinklers to extinguish the
flames.
A couple more blasts from the flamethrower
helps to cook the alien through, until it
drops dead.
The crew takes the thing outside to a ditch,
douses it in kerosene, and lights it on fire
again, just to be sure it’s fully dead.
* The doubletap is a smart move, as you can
never be too sure it’s dead.
While this creature is seemingly lifeless,
the pathogen could have infected and assimilated
anyone else in the group.
* Since everybody is now taking the situation
seriously, what can we do?
We need to test who is a thing and who isn’t.
* Lars is the most unlikely person to be the
thing, since he torched it.
Keep everyone outside in the huddle further
than arm's length preferably, with Lars guarding
them with the flamethrower.
Have Kate, the second most unlikely person
to be the thing, go get enough petri dishes
and sharp objects for each person in the group,
as well as bring a microscope back outside
to the group.
Hand out the sharp objects and petri dishes
to each person, with the instruction to extract
a blood sample.
Then have everyone return their samples back
to Kate and Lars.
Have Kate inspect the samples to determine
who is a thing, then, well, you know what
to do.
They decide to split up so some of the crew
can get test kits and the others can disable
the vehicles.
Splitting up is not a good idea, once you
lose visual contact you can’t determine
if the other’s have been assimilated.
I like my idea better.
Kate goes off with Lars to disable the vehicles,
then he shows her a stash of incendiary grenades
he’s been hoarding.
* Damn, Lars has a flamethrower and incendiary
grenades.
I like this guy, I’ll take 2 or 3 please.
Derek and Sam from the helicopter crash show
up.
* Or, we could just test their blood like
we were going to do already.
* It might also be a good idea for Lars to
top that flamethrower off.
It looks like a type of WW2 flamethrower,
which typically only holds enough fuel to
fire for 7-10 seconds.
He probably used up most of the fuel at his
first barbecue.
Some of the crew members find that the lab
is on fire, and all the test kits were destroyed,
probably sabotaged by the thing.
* Hmm, maybe Kate should have been the only
one to get the kits while Lars guarded the
remaining people, like in my strategy.
* Great, now we are reduced to checking people’s
mouths up close with a flashlight looking
for fillings.
This method is trash because as soon as you
realize it’s the thing, their tongue will
turn into a tentacle and suck your face into
their mass of flesh.
It’s also unreliable, I mean what if someone
just had great dental hygiene and didn’t
need fillings.
They separate the flossers from the fillings,
and send Lars to bring Derek and Carter for
their dental inspection.
Lars gets mauled by something while trying
to find the Americans by himself.
* Damnit Lars, I liked you man.
Panic and distrust ensues once the group learns
that Lars went missing right when the Americans
escaped and showed up.
Derek ends the standoff with a Mozambique
triple tap.
Carter and Derek are Vietnam war veterans,
they don’t fuck around in these situations.
* Unfortunately, the flamethrower was destroyed
in the shootout.
But fortunately, Sam found another flamethrower.
Where the hell is everyone getting flamethrowers
from, is there an armory around or something.
Edvard nearly gets blown up by the damaged
flamethrower, so they take him to the rec
room to continue their game of Guess Who,
and well, let’s just say it’s not hard
to guess who the thing is anymore.
Of course the fucking flamethrower doesn’t
work, or, it’s out of fuel.
* If that was Lar’s flamethrower that they
stole, like we talked about earlier, it was
probably out of fuel.
All hell is now breaking loose.
Derek pathetically attempts to kill it with
more 9mm fire from his Walther P38, which
has no effect, before getting whacked by the
tentacle.
* Honestly, knowing what we know from the
first encounter, bullets have minimal effect.
The best course of option is to use a flamethrower
or grenade.
If you don’t have those, then just run.
* It’s also important to realize that anyone
who got tentacled is now infected by the pathogen,
and could start to attack you.
Adam Finch’s death is one of the more fucked
up ones, with the thing fusing and assimilating
him while he’s alive.
* I think Peder got off easy with the bullet
to the brain.
Kate gets the flamethrower working, and gets
a good look at poor Tormund.
It’s not giant's milk he’s drinking tonight.
Kate mercy kills him with the flamethrower.
* You know the situation is bad when getting
flamethrowered is a mercy killing.
She roasts Derek’s body too.
* Seriously though, that flamethrower has
to be out of fuel by now.
You need to either go get more fuel and those
incendiary grenades, or pick another flamethrower
off the flamethrower tree.
Sam and Kate team up while Sanders hides like
a bitch.
* I never liked Sanders, because he basically
caused this mess, but it’s hard to see him
go out like this.
A facehugger ambushes them, but Carter cuts
it in half with his fireman's axe.
* Great, now there’s two of them.
They should’ve expected that an axe wouldn’t
work on the thing, as it regularly performs
a kind of mitosis and rapid cellular transformation,
but what else are you gonna do?
It did seem like it injured it temporarily
though.
Kate torches the hand centipede thing.
* Good on Kate for warning Carter of picking
the axe back up.
It’s not crazy to assume that the blood
could form into a mini bug thing and infect
him.
For all we know, one virion might be all it
takes to infect and assimilate a person.
Kate and Sam look for Sanders-thing, and attempt
to clear the base of the thing.
* Clearing the base right now is exceptionally
dangerous.
There could be more facehuggers that could
jump out at you from anywhere.
The smaller ones are arguably more dangerous
as they are faster, sneakier, and harder to
hit.
.
* The big one’s no slouch though, as all
it takes is one whip from it’s tentacle
and you’re done.
The best move is probably to retreat to the
grenade shed.
You’ll have more firepower to deal with
the thing, the element of surprise if the
thing enters the shed, and one point of entry
that you can guard.
* Yep, bet you’re wishing you retreated
to the grenade shed instead.
Carter and Kate get separated in the chaos.
Carter grabbing pots, pans, and kitchen knives
to fight with is comically desperate.
Getting back to Kate asap is his only chance.
* I gotta say, it’s refreshing that he didn’t
accidentally knock over some Campbells soup.
It doesn’t matter though, he got backed
into a corner.
The thing spots him, but before Carter gets
absorbed into the meat monstrosity, Kate comes
in hot with the flamethrower.
She uses up the rest of what appeared to be
a bottomless supply of flame juice in a fit
of rage, at least it seems like it.
* It’s pretty understandable that in that
situation you’d squeeze and hold the trigger
until the thing was ashes, but it’s a costly
mistake.
Sanders obviously got rekted earlier, so there
is still a Sanders-thing to contend with,
possibly also dog-thing and Lars-thing as
well.
The flamethrower is the only effective weapon
they have.
They spot Sanders-thing making a break for
it in the snowcat.
I’m not sure how, I thought Kate and Lars
disabled all the vehicles.
Maybe they only unplugged the batteries, not
realizing the thing’s level of intelligence
and access to memories which it can use to
restart the vehicle.
* I’m with Kate.
The thing likely retains the neuron structure
of the victim, so the thing could retain knowledge
of other research stations, like the Halley
station, which has a functioning helicopter.
If we let it leave, it could spread to the
rest of the world.
It must be stopped.
Kate grabs some nades to bring along for the
ride.
* I love the exchange when Carter see’s
Kate stuffing nades into her jacket, and he’s
just like, aight cool, let's head out.
There’s no stupid dialogue of, ‘where
the hell did you get those.’
He doesn’t give a shit how she got them,
only that they are a welcome addition.
Once the two get on the road, Kate and Carter
suspiciously check each other out.
She sees he’s still wearing an earring.
* I’m kind of skeptical of using this as
proof he’s not a thing.
Sure, the thing can’t replicate the ear
piercing, but once formed it could pierce
it’s ear in order to blend in.
Fillings make more sense, as you can’t put
a filling back in.
Given the circumstances, it’s decent reassurance
though.
Kate inquires about Lars’s disappearance,
but Carter says he had nothing to do with
it.
* I guess they judged the direction Sander’s
was going in and realized he was heading to
the spacecraft, not a nearby station.
This thing is trying to fire up the spacecraft,
which I'm confused about.
* Why didn’t it do that earlier.
* Also, virions can’t retain the knowledge
necessary to operate a spacecraft, the thing
should be limited to the intelligence of the
victim it’s imitating since it replicates
their brain structure, generally speaking.
Whatever.
* Did she just fall into the engine or something?
At least the thing was dumb enough to leave
the spaceships entrance open for Carter.
* Do you ever find yourself in a peculiar
situation, and wonder, how did I get here.
What series of decisions did I make, which
led me to this point.
* That’s what Carter is most likely thinking
to himself, as he wanders an alien spaceship
with a world war 2 flamethrower in search
of a spaghetti monster.
While Kate gets mesmerized by an alien hologram
thing, Sander’s, in his final form, sneaks
up on her.
* The thing could have detached an arm to
create a facehugger, which she would have
no way of fighting off.
I don’t know why I'm trying to help the
thing.
It might make for an interesting video though.
If I was the thing, how would I beat the humans?
Let me know in the comments if you like that
idea.
Just before she gets pulled into the open
by Sanders-thing, she grabs the thermite nade.
* Kate misses an opportunity to drop a one-liner,
like, “Eat this”, after she lobs the nade
into the things' suckhole.
* See, that’s how it’s done.
Carter shows up in time for the fireworks.
* A bit Hollywood with the explosion, thermite
nades actually just burn through things like
a 5000 degree sparkler.
You don’t wanna be hand-holding this sparkler,
that’s for sure.
Carter suggests going to a nearby Russian
station.
* It’s kind of hard to see, but Carter’s
not wearing his earring anymore.
It’s possible he is a thing now.
It could have been lost in the tussle, but
we have to be extra cautious with him.
I think Kate knows this too, I don’t think
she’s subtly glancing over at him because
he’s cute.
His suggestion to go to another station is
suspicious too.
Yep.
Kate grabs the flamethrower baits him by bringing
up his missing earring.
When he goes to touch his ear to feel for
the missing earring, he touches the wrong
ear.
* It seems like a clever play by Kate, but
Carter should’ve retained the memory of
his earring placement.
I mean, Sanders-thing remembered how to start
up a fucking spaceship from memories contained
within it’s virions.
* Besides the missing earring, the other thing
that damns him, is that when he showed up
and the thing was about to kill Kate, he didn’t
use the flamethrower on it.
It didn’t look like he saw her lob the grenade
into its mouth either, so he doesn’t have
an excuse to not have opened up on it.
Carter-thing pleads for it’s life in a last
attempt to deceive Kate.
But Kate’s an absolute fucking savage.
* Judging by the weird screaming sounds, Carter
was most likely a thing.
Kate hops into the spare snowcat without checking
the backseat.
* Come on, always check the backseat.
Did we forget about facehuggers all of the
sudden.
The movie ends.
* Kate needs to make contact with other stations
to get the word out, and secure the pathogen
and spaceship.
* It’s risky to go to another station in
person, as we don’t know the extent of the
pathogen's abilities.
We could be infected, but the pathogen might
not attack and replicate the rest of our body
until it’s safer for it to do so, meaning
we wouldn’t be able to detect it, even with
a blood sample.
* We can’t chill at the base and wait for
the storm to pass before radioing out, as
the Lars-thing and Dog-thing could easily
kill us, or make it to another station before
the storm passes.
* Kate needs to go to the russian station
in person, right away, so she can warn them.
Obviously she’d want to self-quarantine
and fully checked out once help arrives.
* If we can swing it, the most effective way
to clean this mess up is to nuke the site
from orbit.
* But it’s probably hard to get approval
for.
With Kate’s help, the rest of the world
could help establish containment and begin
studying the ship.
* Despite torching the things, there are probably
still active cells and virions, so this place
is still a hot-zone.
Since it’d be hard to convince the world
to nuke the research station, trying to manually
contain this pathogen could still fail and
result in unimaginable amounts of death and
destruction.
In conclusion, I think that we could have
prevented the thing’s massacre with a bit
of caution and PPE.
But I also think that there were a lot of
pivotal moments where the crew could’ve
made better decisions which would have stopped
the thing and saved lives.
What do you think?
How would you have beat The Thing?
Let me know in the comments.
Thanks for watching.
And remember, don’t finger alien corpses
with sandwich gloves.